Welcome back and right away Congratulations you have completed the error handling in e-tail Phase 3
section of the course also means that you have completed the whole of the EPL process part of the course
which is a really very massive So Caressa that it's been a massive very long journey.
So well done.
And today we're going to quickly sum up what we learned in this phase 3 or a linked part of the course
and then I'll wave you off to your homework.
OK.
So in this section what we learned is how to add filters to make sure that our conversion from a profile
into a working file works well that it goes smoothly with 40 errors.
As you remember we originally had a lot of errors because the wrong values were in the wrong columns
and the conversions the implicit conversions weren't going through well.
So we had to exclude a lot of rows and then the conversion went through OK.
Also we learned how to do additional quality assurance checks and perform additional exclusions based
on intrinsic knowledge of our data.
So basically domain knowledge so we know that for instance balance cannot be less than zero or from
the data we can see that the zip code has to have a certain format and the birthday can be over 100
years ago or they can be less than five years ago so things like that.
And these were just examples you don't have to use the same exact same elements of code in your specific
case your case will be different but this is showing you that you do have this power to fish out nonconforming
records and records that are considered anomalies from your daughter because it is important for your
daughter to be clean for analysis.
And I wanted to mention two things on this whole topic.
So number one is this is a very simple data set.
It doesn't have lots of Kolb's has only a few columns only has a couple of them and you remember previously
in the previous sections we worked with a data set that had less rows but had so many more columns it
had like over 20 columns I think.
And in that case you can't really go through all of it will take you ages to go through every single
column.
Yes you do need to do the filters if you're experiencing issues then you need to do the filters but
these additional exclusions you should only do them realistically for the columns that you require in
your analysis.
It is important to understand that it is not part of your responsibility.
Well I assume that it's not part of your responsibility to make sure that there are no errors at all
in this whole dataset.
That is somebody else's responsibility what your responsibility is is to perform the analysis to come
up with the great insights and conclusions and and things like that from the door of his Alsatians and
reports and whatever whatever you're working on.
So you will ultimately need a subset of your daughter you won't need all 115 columns in your daughter
said so why not just focus on the ones you need.
Why not if you need balance zipcode and birthday to create a Joe demographic segmentation of a dashboard
.
So you know where the people live how old they are and what their balance is and you can see the distributions
there.
Then in your analysis perhaps you're not even going to address things like what their city street addresses
or what's what their interest rate is that they've been offered.
So in that case you just need to focus on the columns that you will be using and check for anomalies
there and make sure that these columns are clean and then proceed.
And then if you do further on down the track on another call and then you can also perform the Q8 check
here.
So in some cases when you're working for very high profile element like report or something where everything
has to be top notch which is going to a conference which is going to the CEO or something like that
then yes then in that case then you have to probably look at every single column.
But also in that case your daughter said would probably be smaller if if you're focusing on something
very very specific some specific result that you want to choose.
So that's that's part one.
A I guess part one is that once again if your data set is huge if you rotatable is has hundreds of columns
then from here you can see that you can limit the number of columns that you want to invoke in your
analysis in your working table so let's say Mike my table had 100 columns but realistically I only needed
these specific columns then that's how I create my working table.
I would create more table with only the columns that I need in mind.
Then I would insert into those columns and I would select only the associated columns from a row table
.
And we haven't been doing that because I wanted to show you how to work with all the callers but it's
very simple you just basically from here you just delete these three columns delete them from here delete
them from here.
And for this script it would feel like as if those columns don't even exist.
And so you can also do that.
I don't recommend doing that because perhaps one day you might need the column that you haven't converted
or Also while converting on a column you say if we had not included the balance column then we wouldn't
have not got in that era where the balance was actually a letter and that helped us avoid like exclude
a whole row which might have been a corrupt throw in a fully corrupt row so that we could including
more columns helps you excludes more arose.
Well that's that's quite interesting including more columns helps to exclude more rows that have anomalies
.
So in that sense it is beneficial to include more calls.
But however if you know for a fact that you don't need 100 columns sometimes you can include just the
ones you need.
So that's the first thing I wanted to mention.
And the second thing I wanted to mention is the Q&A that we have been doing all along.
As you can see here we're counting the rows we're counting them carefully so we're avoiding any duplication
of counting or double counting So in total we've actually verified that it adds up.
Here recounting the number of rows there were actually every time.
And if you ever need to find this specific row again then you can always revert back to the original
file and look for that specific row using these same conditions.
And you can always if you haven't analyzed the errors you can always revert back to them and find them
again.
If worst comes to worst you can just rerun the scripts are you looking for these fellows to run the
script all the way from here like that.
You just run it and then you instead of Delete to put select star here and then you run this part and
you'll find these four rows again.
So it's all repeatable as you can see it was very easy for me to repeat.
Now if I want to continue the process just run this and there we go.
So I've run that I've run that and the select statement so actually to replay sorrowfully.
So it's all repeatable.
So just be careful with that because if somebody is using your working file while you're doing that
that might cause some issues.
You know you can always create a duplicate copy and redo that into a different file.
But the point of this comment is that all the Q8 checks that we're doing there they're really really
helpful.
They will allow you to trace any work that you've done.
And in case there's a mess up somewhere you'll always be able to come back and say No I actually checked
for that.
Here's his proof I actually confirm that it wasn't there or that that wasn't the case the problem was
with the original data.
Or you could use these comments to you know investigate things down the track or for other people that
pick up your work.
They'll be able to look at your quality assurance checks and understand exactly what you did and also
invoke those same checks in their work.
So there are lots of benefits from having this way through all your analysis and that's how this blueprint
is designed it is designed that you minimize the potential for any errors whatsoever.
So I hope you enjoyed this whole blueprint on e-tail for data science as you can see it is not probably
not 100 percent bullet proof but I would say 90 to 95 percent bullet proof helps you pick up as many
errors as possible.
Moreover it gives you tools and pathways for investigating additional errors based on your domain knowledge
.
And now that we've done with this part of the course what is coming up is the homework.
And I really don't envy you.
It's a challenge.
I challenge you to do the homework.
You don't have to but I challenge you.
It's going to be hectic.
It is going to really really hurt.
It's going to hurt your brain doing that.
But at the same time if you can do that homework you probably good for the first year of your career
in terms of the crappy data that you'll ever come across.
And on that note I look forward to seeing you in that homework tutorial.